Welcome back everyone to.
Part two of tech generation of Python and cares.
In part two we're going to focus on text processing which is a vector rising the actual text data essentially
making dictionaries that can go back and forth between the actual character and it's encoded integer.
And then we'll go to the next part which is creating batches.
Let's head back to the notebook where we left off last time.
OK.
Here we are at the notebook where we left off last time.
Recall that previously we went ahead and created a set of the characters and then sorted it to basically
be a sorted list.
And I have this vocab list and I have all the characters that are used in William Shakespeare's works
and I have this list and what I really want to do.
Essentially assign a number for every item in this list or every character in this list.
And I can call enumerate on vocab and then what that essentially does.
If I say four pair and enumerate vocab let's go ahead and print out that pair and what it does is it
returns these tuples as you probably already know where we have this number and the character.
So let's just go ahead and use this logic to essentially generate a dictionary that goes from a character
to some sort of index code so to do that all I need to say is character to I.A. or index is equal to
I do dictionary comprehension for this.
So I will say character colon i n d for i n the comma.
Character those pairs in enumerate vocab.
Go ahead and run that.
And if I take a look at my character to index dictionary.
Notice here all the characters are now the keys with some numeric indexing as the value.
So I mean if I wanted to say what is the numeric index for capital H I could just pass it on like that
in a return back 33 and what I want is something that essentially operates in reverse.
So one way to do that is by doing the following I'll say index to character is equal to an umpire.
On the vocab and now the vocab is a simple index call on this num pyrite I say index to character if
I pass in thirty three since that was the thirty third item well after zero technically Thirty fourth
item or thirty third indexed item in the original vocab list when it now that's an umpire.
Or even as a list I could have easily just called it and now I get this call from index the character
so have these two objects that easily go from character to index and index to character and now what
I want to do is for all the texts I want to encode it to integers so let's create encoded text and set
it equal to num pi array and then we're going to call character to index for every C or every character
for c in the entirety of the text and recall I already read in the entire text earlier up here by saying
text is equal to open this path to file and read it.
So I have that entire text and this little line is going to encode it all as an umpire.
And depending on how large of a text you're working with as well as how much RAM you have a computer.
This may take a little bit of time but it shouldn't take too long.
Now if I take a look at encoded text let's go ahead and look at the first.
Well go ahead and print all of it you'll see it goes 0 1 1 1 that the thought oh wait thirty thirty
nine twenty nine and I can check the shape of it and this will actually answer how many characters we
had in our file.
So we have around 5.5 million which is more enough to get useful results.
Okay.
So it's really cool is now we have this map and we can use.
So for example if I had some sample text so text so I have this little sample here celery first item
the on it what I could do is take a look at it's encoded form by saying five hundred here and I can
see all the digits that relate to that.
OK so I have my original text and now I have encoded it as well as created these two objects that go
from character to this index encoding and the index encoding back to the character.
Those are the three main things we did so far.
Coming up next we'll focus on creating batches.
I'll see you there.